# DH 101: Practicing The Digital Humanities
A repository for my final individual and group project for Digital Humanities 101: Practicing Digital Humanities taught by Dr Brooks Jessup at UC Berkeley as a part of the Digital Humanities Summer Minor, 2021

## Group Project Abstract
Behind every computer is a human maker and every human being has their own biases and world view. Our group project, “Bias and Exclusivity in the Digital Humanities” explores the context and consequences of separating the human elements from the technologies we use. We presented based on the following articles: Why Are Digital Humanitie So White? Or Thinking the Histories of Race and Computation” by Tara McPherson, “Making a Case for the Black Digital Humanities” by Kim Gallon, “All the Digital Humanities are White, All Nerds Are Men, But Some of Us Are Brave” by Moya Z. Bailey and “Maps, Mapmaking, and Critical Pedagogy: Exploring GIS and Maps as a Teaching Tool for Social Change” by Denise Pacheco and Veronica Velez. These authors draw attention to how ignoring or disregarding the fundamental ways we talk about the humanities are rooted in racist and flawed powered systems. The authors call for a reimagining of the field that incorporates race theory, feminist theory, and cultural context at the core of how we use and talk about our technologies. Each member in our group was crucial in unpacking and interpreting the arguments or the articles in our project. Emily comes from an engineering background whereas Graham has a media studies background and I’m an English major. I think uniting our different disciplines and worldviews ultimately benefited our project. 


### Individual Project Abstract

In 2015, the Washington Post put out an article claiming poetry is going extinct based on a dramatic decline of poetry sales in the United States. By 2016, Rupi Kaur, author of poetry collection milk and honey, is on the New York Times bestseller list. By 2018, poetry readership in the US is higher than it’s been in nearly fifteen years. While there are many reasons for the general increase in interest in poetry, Rupi Kaur has been identified as the one of the first seminal “insta-poets.” This project seeks to analyze Kaur’s work and identify unique features and themes as well to analyze the reader response to her work online. To do so, I used NLP and NLTK to break down the parts of speech and look at word frequencies.  I also used Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) topic modeling to identify common themes. Both methods revealed that Kaur’s work places a lot of emphasis on the body, womanhood, love and desire.  I was also curious about how positive or negative Kaur’s work scored. I used VADER sentiment analysis and found that Kaur’s work is fairly positive, except for her most recent book, Homebody, which scored relatively negative compared to her first works. I ran similar processes to a corpus of Goodread user reviews of her poetry. I found that people mostly enjoyed her work. Homebody was the outlier again since the ranks for her third collection were significantly more positive than her first two works. I found it odd that her relatively ‘most negative’ work was reviewed the most positively. My theory is that her third collection has not reached a far enough public to average out the sentiment. Instead, I theorize that the readers who pick up Homebody are already fans and follower of Rupi Kaur’s work whereas her first collection has reached a far wider general audiences. However, these are just theories. To further investigate these questions and create a more contextual analysis, I would need to compare Rupi  Kaur to other contemporary poets and pull reader responses from other sites like Instagram, Youtube, and Twitter. 
